setup/skills/setup-hyperspell/ingestion/direct/index.md, before:

# Direct Memory Management

This guide helps you add memories programmatically to Hyperspell - useful for tracking conversations, uploading documents, or ingesting data from custom sources.

## Available Operations

Display the following to the user:

```
You've chosen to add memories directly. Hyperspell provides several ways to manage memories programmatically:

1. **Add memories** - Add text content (conversations, documents, notes)
2. **Upload files** - Upload files for automatic processing
3. **List memories** - View and manage existing memories

Which operation would you like to set up?
```

Offer a multiple choice menu:
- Add memories (text content, conversations)
- Upload files
- List/manage memories
- All of the above

Based on their choice, follow the appropriate instructions:
- Add memories → [add.md](add.md)
- Upload files → [upload.md](upload.md)
- List memories → [list.md](list.md)
- All → Follow all three files in sequence

## Auth Setup for Direct Memory Operations

Before implementing any operation, ensure the auth pattern is set up correctly:

**Backend apps (most common):**
- Use API key from environment variable
- Pass the user ID to the SDK
- No user token needed

**Frontend-only apps:**
- Need to fetch user token from a backend endpoint first
- Your backend calls Hyperspell's `/auth/user_token` endpoint to generate tokens
- Use that token for Hyperspell API calls from the frontend
- See the token endpoint examples in [oauth.md](../oauth.md) for how to create the backend endpoint

## TypeScript SDK Setup

For TypeScript/JavaScript projects, the Hyperspell SDK provides typed methods:

```typescript
import Hyperspell from 'hyperspell';

// For backend - use API key with user ID
const hyperspell = new Hyperspell({
  apiKey: process.env.HYPERSPELL_API_KEY!,
  userID: userId  // The ID of the user whose memories these are
});

// For frontend - use user token
const hyperspell = new Hyperspell({
  apiKey: userToken  // Token fetched from your backend or auth provider
});
```

## Python SDK Setup

For Python projects:

```python
from hyperspell import Hyperspell
import os

# For backend - use API key with user ID
hyperspell = Hyperspell(
    api_key=os.environ["HYPERSPELL_API_KEY"],
    user_id=user_id  # The ID of the user whose memories these are
)

# For frontend/scripts - use user token
hyperspell = Hyperspell(api_key=user_token)
```

## Common Use Cases

- **Conversation tracking**: Add each message or conversation summary as a memory
- **Document ingestion**: Upload PDFs, Word docs, or text files
- **Knowledge base**: Add FAQ entries, documentation, or reference materials
- **Activity logging**: Track user activities that should be searchable later

Commit message:

fix: make sure claude doesn't create direct api endpoints for managing hyperspell memories

setup/skills/setup-hyperspell/ingestion/direct/index.md, after:

# Direct Memory Management

This guide helps you add memories programmatically to Hyperspell - useful for tracking conversations, uploading documents, or ingesting data from custom sources.

**Important:** The guides below create **internal helper functions** that you call from your existing code. Do NOT create new API endpoints for these operations - instead, call these helpers from wherever you need them (e.g., after a chat response, when processing an uploaded file, in a background job). If there are no obvious places to integrate these helpers, then once you have completed the entire setup flow, then at the end, provide some next steps for the user about where these helpers are located and when/how to use them.

## Available Operations

Display the following to the user:

```
You've chosen to add memories directly. Hyperspell provides several ways to manage memories programmatically:

1. **Add memories** - Add text content (conversations, documents, notes)
2. **Upload files** - Upload files for automatic processing
3. **List memories** - View and manage existing memories

Which operation would you like to set up?
```

Offer a multiple choice menu:
- Add memories (text content, conversations)
- Upload files
- List/manage memories
- All of the above

Based on their choice, follow the appropriate instructions:
- Add memories → [add.md](add.md)
- Upload files → [upload.md](upload.md)
- List memories → [list.md](list.md)
- All → Follow all three files in sequence

## Auth Setup for Direct Memory Operations

Before implementing any operation, ensure the auth pattern is set up correctly:

**Backend apps (most common):**
- Use API key from environment variable
- Pass the user ID to the SDK
- No user token needed

**Frontend-only apps:**
- Need to fetch user token from a backend endpoint first
- Your backend calls Hyperspell's `/auth/user_token` endpoint to generate tokens
- Use that token for Hyperspell API calls from the frontend
- See the token endpoint examples in [oauth.md](../oauth.md) for how to create the backend endpoint

## TypeScript SDK Setup

For TypeScript/JavaScript projects, the Hyperspell SDK provides typed methods:

```typescript
import Hyperspell from 'hyperspell';

// For backend - use API key with user ID
const hyperspell = new Hyperspell({
  apiKey: process.env.HYPERSPELL_API_KEY!,
  userID: userId  // The ID of the user whose memories these are
});

// For frontend - use user token
const hyperspell = new Hyperspell({
  apiKey: userToken  // Token fetched from your backend or auth provider
});
```

## Python SDK Setup

For Python projects:

```python
from hyperspell import Hyperspell
import os

# For backend - use API key with user ID
hyperspell = Hyperspell(
    api_key=os.environ["HYPERSPELL_API_KEY"],
    user_id=user_id  # The ID of the user whose memories these are
)

# For frontend/scripts - use user token
hyperspell = Hyperspell(api_key=user_token)
```

## Common Use Cases

- **Conversation tracking**: Add each message or conversation summary as a memory
- **Document ingestion**: Upload PDFs, Word docs, or text files
- **Knowledge base**: Add FAQ entries, documentation, or reference materials
- **Activity logging**: Track user activities that should be searchable later
